<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="CHAPTER_II"/>CHAPTER II<br/><br/>
SCHOOL DAYS</h2>
<p>The Morrison School was opened on the 1st of November, 1839, under the
charge of the Rev. S. R. Brown who, with his wife, Mrs. Brown, landed at
Macao on the 19th of February, 1839. Brown, who was afterwards made a
D.D., was a graduate of Yale of the class of 1832. From his antecedents,
he was eminently fitted to pioneer the first English school in China. I
entered the school in 1841. I found that five other boys had entered
ahead of me by one year. They were all studying primary arithmetic,
geography, and reading. I had the start of them only in reading and
pronouncing English well. We studied English in the forenoon, and
Chinese in the afternoon. The names of the five boys were: 1. Wong
Shing; 2. Li Kan; 3. Chow Wan; 4. Tong Chik; 5. Wong Foon. I made the
sixth one and was the youngest of all. We formed the first class of the
school, and became Brown’s oldest pupils throughout, from first to last,
till he left China in December, 1846, on account of poor health. Half of
our original number accompanied him to this country, on his return.</p>
<p>The Morrison Education Society School came about in this way: Not long
after the death of Dr. Robert Morrison, which occurred on the 1st of
August, 1834, a circular was issued among the foreign residents on the
26th of January, 1835, calling for the formation of an Association to be
named the “Morrison Education Society.” Its object was to “improve and
promote English education in China by schools and other means.” It was
called “Morrison” to commemorate the labors and works of that
distinguished man who was sent out by the London Missionary Society as
the first missionary to China in 1807. He crossed the Atlantic from
London to New York where he embarked for China in the sailing vessel
“Trident” on the 31st of January, 1807. He tried to land in Macao, but
the jealousy of the Jesuits thwarted his purpose. He was obliged to go
up to Canton. Finally, on account of the unsettled relations between the
Chinese government and the foreign merchants there, he repaired to
Malacca, and made that place the basis of his labors. He was the author
of the first Anglo-Chinese dictionary, of three quarto volumes. He
translated the Bible into Chinese; Leang Afah was his first Chinese
convert and trained by him to preach. Leang afterwards became a powerful
preacher. The importance and bearing of his dictionary and the
translation of the Bible into Chinese, on subsequent missionary work in
China, were fundamental and paramount. The preaching of his convert,
Leang Afah, likewise contributed in no small degree towards opening up a
new era in the religious life of China. His memory, therefore, is worthy
of being kept alive by the establishment of a school named after him.
Indeed, a university ought to have been permanently founded for that
purpose instead of a school, whose existence was solely dependent upon
the precarious and ephemeral subscriptions of transient foreign
merchants in China.</p>
<p>At the close of the Opium War in 1840, and after the Island of Hong Kong
had been ceded to the British government, the Morrison school was
removed to Hong Kong in 1842. The site chosen for it was on the top of a
hill about six hundred feet above the level of the sea. The hill is
situated on the eastern end of Victoria Colony and was called “Morrison
Hill” after the name of the school. It commands a fine view of the
harbor, as that stretches from east to west. The harbor alone made Hong
Kong the most coveted concession in Southern China. It is spacious and
deep enough to hold the Navy of Great Britain, and it is that
distinguishing feature and its strategic location that have made it what
it is.</p>
<p>On the 12th of March, 1845, Mr. Wm. Allen Macy arrived in Hong Kong as
an assistant teacher in the school. His arrival was timely, because the
school, since its removal from Macao to Hong Kong, had been much
enlarged. Three more classes of new pupils had been formed and the total
number of pupils all told was more than forty. This was more than one
man could manage. The assistant teacher was much needed. Brown continued
his work in the school till the fall of 1846. Macy had a whole year in
which to be broken into the work.</p>
<p>Between Brown and Macy there was a marked difference in temperament and
character. Brown, on the one hand, showed evidences of a self-made man.
He was cool in temperament, versatile in the adaptation of means to
ends, gentlemanly and agreeable, and somewhat optimistic. He found no
difficulty in endearing himself to his pupils, because he sympathized
with them in their efforts to master their studies, and entered heart
and soul into his work. He had an innate faculty of making things clear
to the pupils and conveying to them his understanding of a subject
without circumlocution, and with great directness and facility. This was
owing in a great measure to his experience as a pedagogue, before coming
out to China, and even before he entered college. He knew how to manage
boys, because he knew boys’ nature well, whether Chinese, Japanese or
American. He impressed his pupils as being a fine teacher and one
eminently fitted from inborn tact and temperament to be a successful
school master, as he proved himself to be in his subsequent career in
Auburn, N. Y., and in Japan.</p>
<p>Macy, the assistant teacher, was likewise a Yale man. He had never
taught school before in his life, and had no occasion to do so. He
possessed no previous experience to guide him in his new work of
pedagogy in China. He was evidently well brought up and was a man of
sensitive nature, and of fine moral sensibilities,—a soul full of
earnestness and lofty ideals.</p>
<p>After the Morrison School was broken up in 1850, he returned to this
country with his mother and took up theology in the Yale Theological
Seminary. In 1854, he went back to China as a missionary under the
American Board. I had graduated from Yale College then and was
returning to China with him. We were the only passengers in that long,
wearisome and most trying passage of 154 days from Sandy Hook to Hong
Kong.</p>
<p>Brown left China in the winter of 1846. Four months before he left, he
one day sprang a surprise upon the whole school. He told of his
contemplated return to America on account of his health and the health
of his family. Before closing his remarks by telling us of his deep
interest in the school, he said he would like to take a few of his old
pupils home with him to finish their education in the United States, and
that those who wished to accompany him would signify it by rising. This
announcement, together with his decision to return to America, cast a
deep gloom over the whole school. A dead silence came over all of us.
And then for several days afterwards the burden of our conversation was
about Brown’s leaving the school for good. The only cheerful ones among
us were those who had decided to accompany him home. These were Wong
Shing, Wong Foon and myself. When he requested those who wished to
accompany him to the States to signify it by rising, I was the first one
on my feet. Wong Foon was the second, followed by Wong Shing. But
before regarding our cases as permanently settled, we were told to go
home and ask the consent of our respective parents. My mother gave her
consent with great reluctance, but after my earnest persuasion she
yielded, though not without tears and sorrow. I consoled her with the
fact that she had two more sons besides myself, and a daughter to look
after her comfort. Besides, she was going to have a daughter-in-law to
take care of her, as my elder brother was engaged to be married.</p>
<p>It may not be out of place to say that if it had depended on our own
resources, we never could have come to America to finish our education,
for we were all poor. Doubtless Brown must have had the project well
discussed among the trustees of the school months before he broached the
subject to his pupils.</p>
<p>It was also through his influence that due provision was made for the
support of our parents for at least two years, during our absence in
America. Our patrons who bore all our expenses did not intend that we
should stay in this country longer than two years. They treated us
nobly. They did a great work for us. Among those who bore a conspicuous
part in defraying our expenses while in America, besides providing for
the support of our aged parents, I can recall the names of Andrew
Shortrede, proprietor and editor of the “Hong Kong China Mail” (he was a
Scotchman, an old bachelor, and a noble and handsome specimen of
humanity), A. A. Ritchie, an American merchant, and A. A. Campbell,
another Scotchman. There were others unknown to me. The Olyphant Sons,
David, Talbot and Robert, three brothers, leading merchants of New York,
gave us a free passage from Hong Kong to New York in their sailing
vessel, the “Huntress,” which brought a cargo of tea at the same time.
Though late in the day for me to mention the names of these benefactors
who from pure motives of Christian philanthropy aided me in my
education, yet it may be a source of satisfaction to their descendants,
if there are any living in different parts of the world, to know that
their sires took a prominent part in the education of the three Chinese
youths,—Wong Shing, Wong Foon and myself.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
